i18n/en/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/specifications/restful/http-response-payloads.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Response Payload

This specification defines the mandatory requirements for the HTTP response structure of the Guardia platform with the goal of ensuring interoperability between systems and ease of API consumption.

This specification MUST be applicable to all HTTP requests of the Guardia platform. The response structure MUST be as follows:

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| [`data`](#payload-with-data) | object \| array | Data returned by the operation when the request is successful. |
| [`errors`](#in-case-of-error) | array | List of errors when the request is not successful. |
| [`pagination`](#payload-with-data-and-pagination) | object | Pagination information when applicable. |
| [`debug`](#in-case-of-debug) | object | Debug information when the `X-Grd-Debug` header is requested. |

## In case of Success

The `data` field MUST be returned when the request is successful, and MUST contain the data related to the manipulated entity, including `entity_id`, `external_entity_id` and `entity_type`, according to the [Entities](../entities.md) specification.

### Payload with data

```json
{
  "data": {
    "entity_id": "string",
    "external_entity_id": "string",
    "entity_type": "string",
    //...
  }
}
```

### Payload with data and pagination

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "entity_id": "uint64",
      "external_entity_id": "string",
      //...
    }
  ],
  "pagination": {
    "page_size": "uint32",
    "next_page_token": "string",
    "previous_page_token": "string",
    "first_page_token": "string",
    "last_page_token": "string",
    "total_count": "uint32",
    "has_next_page": "boolean",
    "has_previous_page": "boolean"
  }
}
```

## In case of Error

The error payload MUST be returned when an error occurs in the request, whether from the client side `4xx` or server side `5xx`.

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `code` | string | Error code, as defined in [Error Handling](../errors-handling.md). |
| `reason` | string | Error reason, as defined in [Error Handling](../errors-handling.md). |
| `message` | string | Informative error message for the developer to understand how to handle the error. |

```json
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "code": "string",
      "reason": "string",
      "message": "string"
    }
  ]
}
```

> **IMPORTANT:**
> The `message` field is informative for the developer to understand how to handle the error and MUST NOT be used for end-user error messages.

## In case of Debug

The debug payload MUST be returned when the `X-Grd-Debug` header is present and set to `true`.

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `trace_id` | string | Request trace ID. Also returned in the `X-Grd-Trace-Id` header. |
| `correlation_id` | string | Request correlation ID. Also returned in the `X-Grd-Correlation-Id` header. |
| `instance` | string | Unique instance identifier. |
| `timestamp` | string | Request timestamp in UNIX Epoch. |
| `duration` | string | Request response time in milliseconds. |
| `memory` | string | Memory used by the request in bytes. |
| `query` | string | Request query when applicable. |
| `params` | string | Request parameters when applicable. |
| `internal_ip` | string | Internal pod IP. |
| `external_ip` | string | External proxy or gateway IP of the request. |

```json
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "code": "string",
      "reason": "string",
      "message": "string"
    }
  ],
  "debug": {
    "trace_id": "string",
    "correlation_id": "string",
    "instance": "string",
    "timestamp": "string",
    "duration": "string",
    "memory": "string",
    "query": "string",
    "params": "string",
    "internal_ip": "string",
    "external_ip": "string"
  }
}
```

## Additional notes

- The payloads used in each endpoint MUST be documented in the API OAS contract.
- The payloads described here are considered the **minimum standard** for any Guardia RESTful API.

References:
- [RFC 7807: Problem Details for HTTP APIs](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7807)

Commit message:

chore: standardize the term to property instead of field

i18n/en/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/specifications/restful/http-response-payloads.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Response Payload

This specification defines the mandatory requirements for the HTTP response structure of the Guardia platform with the goal of ensuring interoperability between systems and ease of API consumption.

This specification MUST be applicable to all HTTP requests of the Guardia platform. The response structure MUST be as follows:

| Property                                           | Type            | Description                                                    |
|----------------------------------------------------|-----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| [`data`](#payload-with-data)                       | object \| array | Data returned by the operation when the request is successful. |
| [`errors`](#in-case-of-error)                      | array           | List of errors when the request is not successful.             |
| [`pagination`](#payload-with-data-and-pagination)  | object          | Pagination information when applicable.                        |
| [`debug`](#in-case-of-debug)                       | object          | Debug information when the `X-Grd-Debug` header is requested.  |

## In case of Success

The `data` property MUST be returned when the request is successful, and MUST contain the data related to the manipulated entity, including `entity_id`, `external_entity_id` and `entity_type`, according to the [Entities](../entities.md) specification.

### Payload with data

```json
{
  "data": {
    "entity_id": "string",
    "external_entity_id": "string",
    "entity_type": "string",
    //...
  }
}
```

### Payload with data and pagination

```json
{
  "data": [
    {
      "entity_id": "uint64",
      "external_entity_id": "string",
      //...
    }
  ],
  "pagination": {
    "page_size": "uint32",
    "next_page_token": "string",
    "previous_page_token": "string",
    "first_page_token": "string",
    "last_page_token": "string",
    "total_count": "uint32",
    "has_next_page": "boolean",
    "has_previous_page": "boolean"
  }
}
```

## In case of Error

The error payload MUST be returned when an error occurs in the request, whether from the client side `4xx` or server side `5xx`.

| Property | Type | Description |
|----------|------|-------------|
| `code`   | string | Error code, as defined in [Error Handling](../errors-handling.md). |
| `reason` | string | Error reason, as defined in [Error Handling](../errors-handling.md). |
| `message` | string | Informative error message for the developer to understand how to handle the error. |

```json
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "code": "string",
      "reason": "string",
      "message": "string"
    }
  ]
}
```

> **IMPORTANT:**
> The `message` property is informative for the developer to understand how to handle the error and MUST NOT be used for end-user error messages.

## In case of Debug

The debug payload MUST be returned when the `X-Grd-Debug` header is present and set to `true`.

| Property                                           | Type            | Description                                                    |
|----------------------------------------------------|-----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `trace_id`                                         | string          | Request trace ID. Also returned in the `X-Grd-Trace-Id` header. |
| `correlation_id`                                   | string          | Request correlation ID. Also returned in the `X-Grd-Correlation-Id` header. |
| `instance`                                         | string          | Unique instance identifier.                                    |
| `timestamp`                                        | string          | Request timestamp in UNIX Epoch.                                |
| `duration` | string | Request response time in milliseconds. |
| `memory` | string | Memory used by the request in bytes. |
| `query` | string | Request query when applicable. |
| `params` | string | Request parameters when applicable. |
| `internal_ip` | string | Internal pod IP. |
| `external_ip` | string | External proxy or gateway IP of the request. |

```json
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "code": "string",
      "reason": "string",
      "message": "string"
    }
  ],
  "debug": {
    "trace_id": "string",
    "correlation_id": "string",
    "instance": "string",
    "timestamp": "string",
    "duration": "string",
    "memory": "string",
    "query": "string",
    "params": "string",
    "internal_ip": "string",
    "external_ip": "string"
  }
}
```

## Additional notes

- The payloads used in each endpoint MUST be documented in the API OAS contract.
- The payloads described here are considered the **minimum standard** for any Guardia RESTful API.

References:
- [RFC 7807: Problem Details for HTTP APIs](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7807)
